
insert “existing” before xenolith?

are these time-corrected values?

of the hottest what?

Desert





also Wood and Saleeby, 1998



also Chin et al., 2015 - geochemical perspectives letters



also Ague and Brimhall, 1988



Perhaps discuss petrography before age?



avoid beginning sentence with number



1 sigma?









word missing



why is phenocrysts in quotes?



parentheses surrounding fig 3







wording is off



provide approximate Cr#





I haven’t seen this before - are you sure you don’t mean volume percent or modal percent? Wt.% implies density is factored in.



Implies grains grew via metamorphic processes, which may/may not be intended.



Along with the comment above - what is the benefit to using wt%?



above it is stated that CK-6 is the most fertile.



wonky wording



…further suggests that these samples represent…





time-corrected?

time corrected?







these



neither the text here nor the figure 16 caption adequately describe the graphical approach.



Isn’t Ca2+ a rather large cation?

I’d recommend “+10.3 to +11.0” rather than inserting “-“ otherwise it’s not clear.



missing period.



Cenozoic





Salinia’s Late Cretaceous history - involving detaching from the southern Sierra Nevada and being shed some ~50 km to the SSW - likely has a lot to do with it (Wood and Saleeby, 1997 and me et al., 2012).

More explanation needed - term is not self explanatory (nor did a quick google turn anything up)



inconsistent figure referencing



I didn’t see this term in Pikser et al., who use “remnant” or “stalled slab,” which are not as gross.





perhaps “directly” ? Immediately implies time is involved

cooled?





i don’t see the connection between the first and second half of this sentence.



clarify - do you mean directly beneath the moho?



clarify - do you mean “Cretaceous mantle lithosphere” ?



I assume the different colors (orange/red) in A are different amounts of time the asthenosphere blowtorch is in contact with the base of the crust?





to paraphrase line 878, it is stated that the monterey microplate separated from the farallon in early Miocene.



I must be missing something here.



Kidder et al.’s P-T work is honored nicely here.

I’d recommend specifying that these are Ar-Ar mica ages



labeling the dark blue-purple model runs in fig 20c would be helpful





It would be clearer to refer to the panels by age (e.g., the 74 Ma panel)



This may be a more appropriate spot to discuss the viability of the dangling slab model.



Is this plausible?

SGHf puts franciscan on franciscan; not Salinia on Salinia, as shown in fig 18 (unless I’m reading it wrong).



also west of the fault



A brief indication of which markers are being referred to here would be helpful



unlike the majority of this paper, this paragraph (beginning line 1262) does not flow well, resulting in an argument that’s tough to follow.



I don’t follow.





Cobble









“records”

this is the first of a few figures with nice colors, though I’m not sure what to make of them (I can’t see where the colors are decoded)



again, what are the colors?



colors?



colors?





are samples represented by different colors?

What are colors?


